---
title: Building Machines That Learn and Think Like People
---

The "child as scientist" proposal further views the process of learning itself as also scientist-like, with recent experiments showing that children seek out new data to distinguish between hypotheses, isolate variables, test causal hypotheses, make use of the data-generating process in drawing conclusions, and learn selectively from others (Cook, Goodman, & Schulz, 2011; Gweon et al., 2010; L. E. Schulz, Gopnik, & Glymour, 2007; Stahl & Feigenson, 2015; Tsividis, Gershman, Tenenbaum, & Schulz, 2013). 

Beyond the compositionality inherent in parts, objects, and scenes, compositionality can also be important at the level of goals and sub-goals. Recent work on hierarchical-DQNs shows that by providing explicit object representations to a DQN, and then defining sub-goals based on reaching those objects, DQNs can learn to play games with sparse rewards (such as Montezuma’s Revenge) by combining these sub-goals together to achieve larger goals (Kulkarni, Narasimhan, Saeedi, & Tenenbaum, 2016)

Deep reinforcement learning systems for playing Atari games have had some impressive successes in transfer learning, but they still have not come close to learning to play new games as quickly as humans can. For example, Parisotto et al. (2016) presents the “Actor-mimic” algorithm that first learns 13 Atari games by watching an expert network play and trying to mimic the expert network action selection and/or internal states (for about four million frames of experience each, or 18.5 hours per game). This algorithm can then learn new games faster than a randomly initialized DQN: Scores that might have taken four or five million frames of learning to reach might now be reached after one or two million frames of practice. But anecdotally we find that humans can still reach these scores with a few minutes of practice, requiring far less experience than the DQNs.

In recent experiments, Tsividis, Tenenbaum, and Schulz (2015) found that children can use high-level abstract features of a domain to guide hypothesis selection, by reasoning about distributional properties like the ratio of seeds to flowers, and dynamical properties like periodic or monotonic relationships between causes and effects (see also Magid, Sheskin, & Schulz, 2015).

In contrast, trying to build these representations from scratch using backpropagation, deep Q-learning or any stochastic gradient-descent weight update rule in a fixed network architecture may be unfeasible regardless of how much training data are available. To build these representations from scratch might require exploring fundamental structural variations in the network’s architecture, which gradient-based learning in weight space is not prepared to do.